Video 2:

Communication- to express oneself and share ideas,thoughts or sometimes exchainging feelings,emotions.
send and receive information,ideas,feelings,exchange info or share meaning by opening a common door to improve understanding.

communication is a 2 way process with sender and receiver.Communication is also done in one way(speaking with herself)ex:sleep
Examples of one way communication::Newspaper,Radio,Notice.
2way : communication is not done until Receiver gives his feedback and response. Sender can modify the msg based on receivers response which is called as Infinity model(Noise,feedback,sender and receiver)
Sender can check whether the receiver reached  msg in correct way or not.We can check that the receiver understood or not using his response.

Sender
Receiver
channel(speech,writing,mails,letterssending,receiving,flowers......)
Crucial b/w speaking and writing and we have to know where we choose what
Example:if we know that one of the colleagues have lost someone,we can send mail or msg etc..,But going in personal is better channel.
Encoding and decoding
  secret language which cannot be understood by others except u and receiver
.Example:my mife is very homely(homeloving/homemaker) where as receiver understands that homely means not very good looking which is a contradictory statement
Communication with symbols:
sending msg with symbols and description for that.
2 kinds of symbols verbal symbol and nonverbal symbol
Just speaking correct language or fluent english doesnt mean that you are a good speaker because everyone in the hall might not be from english medium . It also make someone to feel scared to talk in between.
Exchaining symbols will improve understanding on one another
Inferential model of communication:Communication doesnot take place until receiver understands the meaning after decoding the message.

Communication is the joint creation of meaning by sender and receiver in the process of exchaining the symbols
Example:If u say to your colleague that "you are tierd" meaning looking stressed,but the receiver receives in negative way that u r saying he is not able to do the work or not looking good.So joint creation is done between sender and receiver by exchaining symbols.
Example:(Non verbal symbol)If the baby is hungry she will convey the message by crying and it will be understood by her caretaker as they are working together.
EX2:When we r trying to get the meaning or trying to modify,we can select verbal or nonverbal.Sometimes we use cluster of symbols like verbal,non verbal,vocal and visuals we can produce the meaning.

Symbol:Something which stands for something.Example:statue of liberty
If receiver doesnt know about symbols,they just think that it is a lady.Problem with symbol is---->Symbols have no fixed meaning.For instance,in west white is a happy color(Wedding) whereas in many parts of India white is a color of morning.We will not understand this until we r in that community.
Examples os symbols:color,dress,image,sound,etc..,
To overcome the problem the problem of symbol both sender and receiver should be of same community.
Meaning is created through agreement.Exchange of meaning take place only sender and receiver give the same meaning for the symbol.

Why do symbols mean different things(Filters of communicaion)?
Knowledge,status,communication skills,culture and emotional state.


Video 3:Encoding meaning using verbal symbols
language works by rules understood by its user.It cannot be understood independent by the user

We think communication is choosing right symbol and matching it with right meaning but we found that no symbol has a right meaning.Every symbol has a cluster of meanings which will change according to the user.
Our experience is shaped by the words.In oldendays,there is a saying that language reflects reality but it is changed to language reshapes reality.Someone whose experience is not same as ours will not understand the meaning of the word

Problems why we are not finding the right words?
Most words we use donot seperate facts from guess.Words tends to confuse facts and inferences
inference:My daughter is the best daughter in the world
fact:Aishwarya Ray is the most beautiful 




